I soon learned more about the Lobos mate
from the shepherds they call her Blanca
because of her white coat and they say
she leads Lobo a merry dance this
tallies with the tracks I saw at the
creek and has suggested a way to catch
her cunningly seaton first pace traps
rather obviously around the dead cow
guessing that Lobo would stop and try to
disarm them while he was thus diverted
Seaton hoped that Lobos mate Blanca
would run on to investigate the head of
the cow which Seton had cut off and put
to one side it could only be approached
through a narrow passage between rocks
and it was here that Seton planted
several of his best traps properly
deodorized and concealed with the utmost
care
Wednesday January 24th this evening I am
more excited and yet more anxious than I
have been in three long months try as I
might I cannot get to sleep
the following morning Seaton went up the
canyon hoping that at last he had struck
a blow against Lobo he was in luck
Blanca had walked right into his trap
according to Seton Lobo remained close
by reluctant to leave his mate
but it would have been suicide to stay
and face the men's guns Seaton would
later recoil from what he called the
inevitable tragedy that followed but the
plain fact is he was here to do a job he
was here to kill wolves